#About
The Qt Creator plugin for basic support of [D programming language](http://dlang.org/).

The plugin provides some features for comfortable code editing and programming using D language such as code completion, indention, syntax highlighting, etc.

#Features
* Indention
* Syntax highlighting (via QtCreator's Generic Highlighter)
* Code completion (via DCD or Dasted)
* Calltips (via DCD or Dasted)
* Follow symbol (via DCD or Dasted)
* Documentation hints (via DCD or Dasted)
* Outline (via Dasted)
* Symbol locator (via Dasted)
* Context help (via .qch file with ID prepender "D/", can be generated by [dlang-qch](https://github.com/Groterik/dlang-qch), for example like [Phobos reference](https://github.com/Groterik/dlang-qch/releases/download/0.1/dlang_phobos.qch))

#TODO
* Class view for project/current document
* Tooltip with symbol information
* Highlight selected symbol in current document

#Building
1. clone the project.
1. ```git submodule update --init```
1. run ```qmake && make``` or open dlangeditor.pro in the Qt Creator and build the project from IDE. May be you should set QTC_SOURCE and/or QTC_BUILD variables for qmake for QtCreator's sources and libraries correspondingly. It can be done with the following syntax: ```qmake "QTC_SOURCE=$MY_QTCREATOR_SOURCE_PATH" "QTC_BUILD=$MY_QTCREATOR_LIB_PATH"```
1. if successful, the plugin shared library will appear in local plugin directory:
	* $HOME/.local/share/data/QtProject/qtcreator/plugins/$QTCREATOR_VERSION/cleem/ on Linux
	* %LOCALAPPDATA%\QtProject\qtcreator\plugins\$QTCREATOR_VERSION\cleem\
	* ~/Library/Application Support/QtProject/Qt Creator/plugins/$QTCREATOR_VERSION/cleem/ on Mac
1. on Mac OS X: run ```fix_mac.sh $PATH_TO_PLUGIN/libDlangEditor.dylib``` to fix rpath constants (mess with Qt libraries and QtC's Qt libraries).

#Build requirements
1. Qt >= 5.4.0
1. Qt Creator >= 3.3.0 (with sources for plugins building, of course)

#Usage requirements
* [DCD](https://github.com/Hackerpilot/DCD) binaries (server).
* [Dasted](https://github.com/Groterik/dasted) binary.

#Implementation notes
Code completion (code model) is supported via DCD (D Completion Daemon by Brian Schott) or Dasted (fork of DCD that is developed specially for this plugin).
